---
title: "View services"
categories:
- "help-page-category-reference"
- "help-page-subcategory-reference-data"
layout: help-detail
language: en
sidebar_position: 3

---

The View services section displays the operational status of your published view services. You can activate and deactivate your services using the toggle button in the top left corner. After activation, manually start the publishing process with the &laquo;Publish Services&raquo; button in the top right corner.

The View service panel provides a list of published view services. You can directly access the capabilities documents for WMS 1.1.1 and 1.3.0. To copy any URL to the clipboard, click the <a className="btn btn-default" title="Copy URL"><span className="glyphicon glyphicon-copy"></span></a> icon to the right of the URL. Map view provides a simple web mapping client where you can preview your published view service. Visit [Using the Feature Explorer](https://www.wetransform.to/help/en/help-page-category-datasetworkflow/help-page-subcategory-datasetworkflowpublishservices/2015/01/02/dataset-feature-explorer/) for more information about accessing the Feature Explorer tool from the HTML view of the GetFeatureInfo client.

The Metadata panel provides a list of published metadata. Click on “Metadata (Dataset)” or “Metadata (View Service)” to open it in a browser and view the XML data directly. Click on the <a className="btn btn-default" title="Copy URL"><span className="glyphicon glyphicon-copy"></span></a> icon to copy the service URL.

The test reports panel provides a list of PDFs which contain the results of a series of tests executed on published metadata and services. Click on the test report to open it in a browser and view the test results directly.

Metadata tests are executed on dataset metadata and download and view service metadata. Tests check for ISO, GDI-DE and INSPIRE compliancy, depending on the language of the theme. English themes are tested for ISO schema validation. German themes are tested using the "Konventionen der GDI-DE für INSPIRE-relevante Metadaten" conformance class.

Tests executed on Metadata:

<table className="tb">
    <th colspan="2">Test</th>
    <th colspan="2">Conformity Level</th>
    <th colspan="2">Resource</th>
    <th>Comments</th>
  <tr>
    <td># internal identifier</td>
    <td>Title</td>
    <td>GDI-DE</td>
    <td>INSPIRE</td>
    <td>Dataset-Metadata</td>
    <td>Service-Metadata</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>md_gdi</td>
    <td>Metadaten |  <br/> Metadata: ISO and GDI-DE</td>
    <td>X</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>X</td>
    <td>X</td>
    <td>not executed for restricted services</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>md_inspire</td>
    <td>Metadaten | Metadata: INSPIRE</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>X</td>
    <td>X</td>
    <td>X</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<br/>

The Service settings panel provides a toggle switch to flip the coordinate axes of your data set. If your data set is displaying in flipped coordinates, toggle the switch to correct the display.

The *Split files for publication* toggle enables users to configure a threshold used to control the maximum number of features in each \*.gml or \*.gpkg file. File splitting can be used to enable the publishing of large files. The maximum number of features per file is set at 10,000. The functionality for splitting files during the publication is not applied when the Atom feed is enabled in the Download Services section of the theme for most file types. File splitting functionality can only be applied to \*.gpkg datasets with enabled Atom feeds because the original \*.gpkg file that was not split is used for the Atom feed.

The rendering optimization toggles are activated or deactivated by default depending on the system settings. Whether they can be applied may depend on the data structure and the configured styling rules. The *Allow geometry generalization* toggle will display generalized features at smaller zoom levels. The toggle can be deactivated if the generalization oversimplifies the features, however the performance of the view service may be affected. The *Feature limit for internally rendered map tiles* toggle limits the number of features displayed in each tile. The toggle can be deactivated if the omitted features become a problem in the visualization, however the performance of the view service may be affected.

The Service log panel displays a transaction log which describes processes executed on your data set and any errors that may occur during publishing. The Service log is generated by the service publisher.
